Initial Rucio data management Documentation (#383)
EGI-Federation/documentation: content/en/users/Rucio/Getting_started/_index.md

This can be ensure file x has at least 1 copy at storagesite1,
or ensure file y is on tape, or even on tape at more than 1 location,
or even file z has 2 copies at any site within a selection of sites.
How you set up the RSE and the attributes you give them allows for many different ways to create and use rules.
Once a rule is created Rucio will get to work to ensure that the rule is True at all times.
- **File** - Within Rucio is a single file.
- **Dataset** - Is a collection of files, which may be a collection or related results, or data.
- **Container** - A collection of Datasets which may build a larger subset of a whole experiment.
- **Scope** - This is a collection in which files, datasets, and containers are placed.
Users will have their own scope, often user.username.
But also experiments, sub-experiments,
or however you wish to orgaise the data can also have scopes.
Accounts can be given access to scopes by VO admins.
- **DID** - A DID is an acronym that stands for 'Data IDentifier'.
This is made up from the scope, and the filename within Rucio seperated by a colon.
e.g. experiment1:file1.

### Getting Started as a new user

> <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->

Author: Added to exclusions in latest PR update

1. To get set up with a Rucio account please create a ticket on [GGUS](https://ggus.eu/?mode=ticket_submit).
Please fill in the form with a subject, description, ticket catagory - service request,

> priortiy - less urgent, and under routing information please selct Assign to support unit - Rucio).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
priority - less urgent, and under routing information please select Assign to support unit - Rucio).
```

Within the ticket description please include:

    - Desired Username (usually initials and surname e.g. John Doe would have jdoe)  
    - Your email  
    - Name of the experiment / VO you are part of  
    - Either:  
        The subject of your eScience certificate  
        or  

>         desired password  

Author: You are correct about that and have reworded the document accordingly in the latest PR

I have also added the https://ggus.eu/* to the exclusions so I can remove the exclusions within the document

<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

**we can organise a video call to explain or take sensitive information if you prefer**  
In Terms of testing you can join the test VO (dteam) to try Rucio as a service and its capabilities.  
**Please note that we are working on allowing Rucio accounts to be created and accessed with IAM services,**
**and [EGI Check-in](https://docs.egi.eu/users/check-in/), but currently only support x509 and password access.**

1. Once our team has this information we will create you a Rucio account.  

1. You will then need to install a containerised client on your computer.  

    - Install Docker to run the container  

    - <https://www.docker.com/get-started> (for windows users I would recommend using WSL2)  

    - Follow the docker instructions to ensure it is running correctly.  

> 

Author: done

---
title: "Getting Started"
type: docs
linkTitle: "Rucio Getting started"

> weight: 100

Reviewer 2: from the preview here https://docs.egi.eu/documentation/383/users/rucio/ , i would change the weights in order to have the menu in this order: 1 - Rucio Getting started , 2- Rucio commands, 3 -Rucio admins

Author: Addressed in latest push

description: >-
     How to get started with Rucio as a new user or VO.
---

## Getting Started

### Getting Started as a new user

> 1. To get set up with a Rucio account please contact our [support email](mailto:Rucio-Support@stfc365.onmicrosoft.com):

Reviewer 2: can we suggest to use GGUS for this requests, so that we are tracked? GGUS -> Rucio SU

Author: Addressed in latest push

    - Desired Username (usually initials and surname e.g. John Doe would have jdoe)  
    - Your email  
    - Name of the experiment / VO you are part of  
    - Either:  
        The subject of your eScience certificate  
        or  
        desired password  

> **we can organise a video call to explain or take sensitive indormation if you prefer**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**we can organise a video call to explain or take sensitive information if you prefer**  
```

Author: Addressed in latest push

-e RUCIO_CFG_CLIENT_KEY=/opt/rucio/etc/userkey.pem \
-e RUCIO_CFG_ACCOUNT=<Rucio Username> \
-e RUCIO_CFG_CA_CERT=/opt/rucio/etc/web/ca-first.pem \
-v <PATH/TO/e-Science CA 2B>:/opt/rucio/etc/web/ca-first.pem \
-v <PATH/TO/YOUR/USERCERT>:/opt/rucio/etc/usercert \
-v <PATH/TO/YOUR/USERKEY>:/opt/rucio/etc/userkey \
--name=rucio-client \
-it \
-d rucio/rucio-clients
```

This block of code may look large but it is configuring Rucio to connect to the Multi-VO Rucio at RAL,
your account and VO details, where you are loading them into the container,
and mounting the authentication details into the container.  

The UK escience CA 2B can be [obtained here](https://ca.grid-support.ac.uk/)
The 3 character VO name will be provided to you when you sign up for a Rucio account.  

1. Run the following commands inside the docker container to finalise set up:  

```shell
$ cd /opt/rucio/etc/
$ cp userkey userkey.pem
$ chmod 400 userkey.pem
$ cp usercert usercert.pem
```

**You should now have a fully set up Containerised Client for your Rucio Account**
**and VO which you can start in docker and use whenever you need it.**  

- If not please contact Rucio support

### Getting started as a new VO

> - Contact our [support email](mailto:Rucio-Support@stfc365.onmicrosoft.com)

Reviewer 2: same as above

Author: Addressed in latest push
